README.md, before:

# Claire's Client Tracker

#### A simple C# program built for hair salons and stylists to manage their clients

#### By Matthew Melito

## Technologies Used

* C#
* MySQL
* HTML

## Description

This C# application was designed and built to help hair salon owners and managers track their client base and assign clients to the stylists who work with them.


## Setup/Installation Requirements

### Create a Database

1. Download and open MySQL Workbench.
2. Create a Username and Password.
3. Select 'Create a New Schema' from the toolbar.
4. Name the schema and select 'Apply'. A pop up window will appear. Here, select 'Apply' and 'Finish'.
5. Select your schema  from the schemas menu. Right click on 'Tables' and select 'Create Table'.
6. Name the table 'Clients', then add an id column by clicking in the window below the name of the table. Double click to name the column 'id'. Then select INt from the Datatype dropdown menu. Check the PK, NN, and AI checkboxes.
7. Add another row, this time namingthe coumn 'name'. Select VARCHAR(45) under 'Type'.


### Cloning and Running the Project

* Clone project repository from https://github.com/mjmelito/HairSalon
* Navigate to the project's root directory, HairSalon
* Install the MySglConnector Package with the following terminal command: dotnet add package MYSqlConnector -v 2.2.0. Then enter 'dotnet restore'.
* Add a file named 'appsettings.json and add the following code to the file:

{
    "ConnectionStrings": {
        "DefaultConnection": "Server=localhost;Port=3306;database=to_do_list_with_mysqlconnector;uid=[YOUR-USERNAME-HERE];pwd=[YOUR-PASSWORD-HERE];"
    }
}
* Be sure to add obj, bin, and appsettings.json to your .gitignore file and commit the file to GitHub to protect your Username and Password.
* In the root directory, enter the terminal command 'dotnet run' to run the application in your browser.

## Known Bugs

* No known bugs or issues.

## This project uses the following license: MIT

Copyright (c) 2023 Matthew Melito

Commit message:

Update README instructions for database import and program execution.

README.md, after:

# Claire's Client Tracker

#### A simple C# program built for hair salons and stylists to manage their clients

#### By Matthew Melito

## Technologies Used

* C#
* MySQL
* HTML

## Description

This C# application was designed and built to help hair salon owners and managers track their client base and assign clients to the stylists who work with them.


## Setup/Installation Requirements

#### Installing .NET and MySQL
1. Install .NET6 if you have not done so. Visit [this link](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/6.0) to download the recommended versions of both software packages.
2. Follow the installer prompts to install the software. Use the default settings.
3. In a terminal, install `dotnet-script` by entering the following command: `$ dotnet tool install -g dotnet-script`. You will also need to configure your environment to access this tool. See [this link](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/c-and-net/getting-started-with-c/installing-dotnet-script).
4. Install MySQL.  Follow the instructions at [this link](https://www.learnhowtoprogram.com/c-and-net/getting-started-with-c/installing-and-configuring-mysql).

#### Cloning and Initial Setup

5. Clone project repository from https://github.com/mjmelito/HairSalon
6. Navigate to the project's root directory, HairSalon
7. Install the MySglConnector Package with the following terminal command: dotnet add package MYSqlConnector -v 2.2.0. Then enter 'dotnet restore'.
8. Within the HairSalon directory, add a file named 'appsettings.json and add the following code to the file:

{
    "ConnectionStrings": {
        "DefaultConnection": "Server=localhost;Port=3306;database=to_do_list_with_mysqlconnector;uid=[YOUR-USERNAME-HERE];pwd=[YOUR-PASSWORD-HERE];"
    }
}
9. Be sure to add obj, bin, and appsettings.json to your .gitignore file and commit the file to GitHub to protect your Username and Password.

#### Importing the Database 
10. Open MySQL Workbench and locate the Navigator pane (on the left-hand side of the program window.)
11. Select "Data Import/Restore".
12. Select "Import from Self Contained File". Navigate to the top directory of the project. ("HairSalon").
13. Within "HairSalon", select the file named matt_melito.sql.
14. Under "Default Schema to be Imported To", click the "New..." button, enter the name of the database (matt_melito.sql), and click "OK".
15. Select to the "Start Import" button.

#### Running the Program
16. 

## Known Bugs

* No known bugs or issues.

## This project uses the following license: MIT

Copyright (c) 2023 Matthew Melito
